README.md, before:

# ephemeral-roles

| <a href="https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=392419127626694676&permissions=268435456&scope=bot"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/Testa_Anatomica-Filippo_Balbi.jpg" width="100"></a><br/> [![Mentioned in Awesome Go](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge.svg)](https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go) ![Build Status](https://github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/workflows/build/badge.svg?branch=master) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles?branch=master) [![Dev Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-dev%20chat-blue)](https://discord.gg/yrxaJb5) |
| :------: |

### A Discord bot for managing ephemeral roles based upon voice channel member presence

----

## Quickstart

1. Click on the `Ephemeral Roles` logo head above or use [this link](https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=392419127626694676&permissions=268435456&scope=bot)
to invite `Ephemeral Roles` into your Discord server
    1. The 'Manage Roles' permission is required.  The invite link above
    provides that by automatically creating an appropriate role in your server
    for `Ephemeral Roles` 
2. Ensure the new role for `Ephemeral Roles` is at the top (or as near as
possible) to the server's list of roles
    1. If you're not sure how or why to do that, take a quick read over
    Discord's excellent [Role Management 101](https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/214836687-Role-Management-101) guide
3. Enjoy!

----

## What does `Ephemeral Roles` do?

After the `Ephemeral Roles` bot is invited to your Discord server, it
immediately starts to watch for changes to your voice channels.  When a member
joins a channel, `Ephemeral Roles` automatically assigns that member an
*ephemeral role* associated with the channel.  If the *ephemeral role* doesn't
exist yet, `Ephemeral Roles` will create it.

By having your members auto-sorted into *ephemeral roles* in your member list,
it's clear to see who are available for chatting and the channels they are in.
This is because `Ephemeral Roles` leverages the Discord feature that the member
list in servers will group together members by role right out of the box.

When a member changes or disconnects from voice channels, even across Discord
servers, `Ephemeral Roles` will account for the change and automatically
revoke/reissue *ephemeral roles* as appropriate.

----

## Example Usage

| Orange roles below are automatically managed by `Ephemeral Roles` |
| :------: |
| ![Ephemeral Roles action example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/action.gif) |
| ![Ephemeral Roles static example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/static.png) |
| ![Ephemeral Roles example role list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/roles.png) |

----

## Monitoring

A **[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)** and **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)** instance have been set up to monitor `Ephemeral Roles` metrics.

| [grafana.ephemeral-roles.net](http://grafana.ephemeral-roles.net/d/OqANQqtiz/ephemeral-roles-metrics?orgId=1&refresh=5s) |
| :------: |
| <a href="http://grafana.ephemeral-roles.net/d/OqANQqtiz/ephemeral-roles-metrics?orgId=1&refresh=5s"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/bot-metrics.png"></a> |

----

## Contributing to the project

Contributions are very welcome! Please follow the guidelines below:

* Open an issue describing the bug or enhancement
* Fork the `develop` branch and make your changes
  * Try to match current naming conventions as closely as possible
  * Try to keep changes small and incremental with appropriate new unit tests
* Create a Pull Request with your changes against the `develop` branch

This project is equipped with a full
[CI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration)
/
[CD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_deployment) pipeline:
 
* Linting and unit tests will be automatically run with the PR, providing
feedback if any additional changes need to be made
* Merge to `master` will automatically deploy the changes live

Commit message:

Update README.md with architectural diagram

README.md, after:

# ephemeral-roles

| <a href="https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=392419127626694676&permissions=268435456&scope=bot"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/Testa_Anatomica-Filippo_Balbi.jpg" width="100"></a><br/> [![Mentioned in Awesome Go](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge.svg)](https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go) ![Build Status](https://github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/workflows/build/badge.svg?branch=master) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles?branch=master) [![Dev Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-dev%20chat-blue)](https://discord.gg/yrxaJb5) |
| :------: |

### A Discord bot for managing ephemeral roles based upon voice channel member presence

----

## Quickstart

1. Click on the `Ephemeral Roles` logo head above or use [this link](https://discordapp.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=392419127626694676&permissions=268435456&scope=bot)
to invite `Ephemeral Roles` into your Discord server
    1. The 'Manage Roles' permission is required.  The invite link above
    provides that by automatically creating an appropriate role in your server
    for `Ephemeral Roles` 
2. Ensure the new role for `Ephemeral Roles` is at the top (or as near as
possible) to the server's list of roles
    1. If you're not sure how or why to do that, take a quick read over
    Discord's excellent [Role Management 101](https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/214836687-Role-Management-101) guide
3. Enjoy!

----

## What does `Ephemeral Roles` do?

After the `Ephemeral Roles` bot is invited to your Discord server, it
immediately starts to watch for changes to your voice channels.  When a member
joins a channel, `Ephemeral Roles` automatically assigns that member an
*ephemeral role* associated with the channel.  If the *ephemeral role* doesn't
exist yet, `Ephemeral Roles` will create it.

By having your members auto-sorted into *ephemeral roles* in your member list,
it's clear to see who are available for chatting and the channels they are in.
This is because `Ephemeral Roles` leverages the Discord feature that the member
list in servers will group together members by role right out of the box.

When a member changes or disconnects from voice channels, even across Discord
servers, `Ephemeral Roles` will account for the change and automatically
revoke/reissue *ephemeral roles* as appropriate.

----

## Example Usage

| Orange roles below are automatically managed by `Ephemeral Roles` |
| :------: |
| ![Ephemeral Roles action example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/action.gif) |
| ![Ephemeral Roles static example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/static.png) |
| ![Ephemeral Roles example role list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/roles.png) |

----

## Monitoring

A **[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)** and **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)** instance have been set up to monitor `Ephemeral Roles` metrics.

| [grafana.ephemeral-roles.net](http://grafana.ephemeral-roles.net/d/OqANQqtiz/ephemeral-roles-metrics?orgId=1&refresh=5s) |
| :------: |
| <a href="http://grafana.ephemeral-roles.net/d/OqANQqtiz/ephemeral-roles-metrics?orgId=1&refresh=5s"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/bot-metrics.png"></a> |

----

## Architecture

| Architectural Diagram |
| :------: |
| ![Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles/master/web/static/architecture.png) |

`Ephemeral Roles` runs in a Kubernetes cluster as a StatefulSet of 10
Pods. Each Pod contains a running instance of the bot. A StatefulSet is
used so that each Pod has a predictable name so that the bot instance can
inform the Discord API which one of the 10 Pods it is. The Discord
API will assign a number of the total guilds (servers) to each of the bot
instances to balance the load of managing the guild events. If any of the
Pods stop running for whatever reason, the StatefulSet will automatically
restart them.

Another application, [pod-bouncer](https://github.com/ewohltman/pod-bouncer),
runs in a Pod and is responsible for receiving alerts from
`Prometheus`/`AlertManager` and to act upon them by automatically causing
unhealthy Pods for `Ephemeral Roles` to restart.

Additionally, [ephemeral-roles-informer](https://github.com/ewohltman/ephemeral-roles-informer)
runs in another Pod and is responsible for collecting metrics from the
`Ephemeral Roles` instances to update search services such as
[discord.bots.gg](https://discord.bots.gg/) and [top.gg](https://top.gg/).

----

## Contributing to the project

Contributions are very welcome! Please follow the guidelines below:

* Open an issue describing the bug or enhancement
* Fork the `develop` branch and make your changes
  * Try to match current naming conventions as closely as possible
  * Try to keep changes small and incremental with appropriate new unit tests
* Create a Pull Request with your changes against the `develop` branch

This project is equipped with a full
[CI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration)
/
[CD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_deployment) pipeline:
 
* Linting and unit tests will be automatically run with the PR, providing
feedback if any additional changes need to be made
* Merge to `master` will automatically deploy the changes live
